---
layout: post
title: My first Unity Project
---
I recently was presented with the opportunity to pursue my own project for bloc so I decided to do something that I have been considering doing for years, make my very own game! I started with the idea of creating a cookie clicker type game based from my own day job as an attendant at a self-serve dog wash. After solidifying the idea for the game, I started shopping around for what game engine to use. The basic criteria that I had when choosing was it must be powerful enough, it must be able to port my finished game to android, and it should support languages that I know or could learn easily. After some searching I was considering three options; PhoneGap, Xamarin, and Unity. PhoneGap was quickly thrown out, as it didn’t seem to have enough power to handle a game. Xamarin followed quickly behind as although it was plenty powerful it would have required me to learn a language that I have only dabbled in. Unity seemed to have it all, powerful engine, support for JavaScript as well as C# and it has easy export to a variety of platforms including android. 
Now that I had both the game idea roughed out and my game engine picked out it was onto hours of coding, googling, and videos on topics related to game design and the specifics of Unity. There were many opportunities for learning and unexpected turns. One of the first things that I struggled with was setting up the game environment. I was having trouble aligning the isometric game tiles that were going to make out the floor of my shop. There were some work arounds and some tools that were for purchase that would make aligning them easier but surprisingly there was one solution that seemed easier than using those tools. I just had to make the game 3d and then simply set up the main camera to show everything at an angle giving the appearance of isometric art. I threw out all my game art I had been searching the internet to find some 3d models of dogs that I could use. 
The whole process of game design and programing was filling and fun, the bugs that I ran into while working on the core functions that power my game ranged from the basic where the game just wouldn’t work to the hilarious. One specific example of the latter was when I accidentally put a reference to the spawn function in my update function before adding any checks to it. The result was a torrent of dogs spawning on top of each other collapsing the tile they spawned on and pinging off presumably into the ethereal plane. After working through these issues and many more I was left with a core game that I will be able to build on in the months following. I had a blast working on this and I encourage everyone to download unity and give it a go. 
